I bow to all the seekers of truth!
At the very outset we have to know that truth
is what it is.
We cannot conceptualize it.
We cannot organize it.
Also, we cannot know it at the stage we are,
that is, the human awareness.
We have to become something subtler, something
higher, to know the truth.
And to know the truth you cannot pay for it.
It exists.
Only our evolutionary process has brought
us to the human level and we have to know,
that yet we have not known the Absolute truth.
If you had known Absolute truth, there would
have been no problems, no arguments, no fighting,
no wars.
We did not know that.
And we would not know it because we have to
reach the point where we can know Absolute.
So there’s a little breakthrough more needed
so that we can know the truth.
When we talk of know and knowledge, we have
to understand that it’s not the mental understanding
that is knowledge.
For example, one of the disciples of Christ,
Thomas, travelled down to India and he wrote
lots of treatise in Egypt and put them in
a big jar which was discovered about 48 years
back.
Then they tried to decode it and a book has
already come out of it called as ‘Gnostics’.
He says, those who know, are ‘Gnostics.’
Now imagine the ‘Gn’ words comes from
Sanskrit meaning, to know on your central
nervous system, not mental, but on your central
nervous system whatever we know is the knowledge.
And those who know on their central nervous
system are the ‘Gnostics.’
It’s a wonderful thing they have done.
But still, they are busy with the rest of
the book and they said that truth is an experience
of the truth.
So let us see what is the truth.
Whatever I tell you today you need not accept
it blind folded but you must keep your mind
open like a scientist.
Whatever I say is like a hypothesis for you
and if you find it works out, then you have
to accept it.
As honest people, you have to accept.
Now I say that the truth is that you are the
Spirit.
You are not this body, mind, but you are the
Spirit and the second truth is that there
is an all pervading power of God’s love
which does all the living work.
We take everything for granted.
For example, if we have a seed with us, we
plant it in the Mother Earth and it sprouts
by itself.
It’s a living process.
We take that living process absolutely for
granted.
We don’t want to know how it works out.
It’s spontaneous.
Spontaneous means Sahaj.
Sahaj means born with you.
It is born with you.
The yoga is the union with this all pervading
divine power.
This state is to be achieved by all of you.
Is your fundamental right, your birth right
to achieve it because if you do not achieve
it, you will not know the meaning of your
life, the beauty of your being and the greatness
of your existence.
Like this instrument has got these wires and
if I do not put them to the mains they do
not work.
They have no meaning.
In the same way we are to be connected to
the mains.
Now about Kundalini he has already told you
about this beautiful thing that is within
us.
When we talk about it, you should also not
take it for granted but you can see the results
that you can achieve by this kundalini awakening.
Of course it’s a living process and as you
do not pay any money for sprouting a seed,
in the same way you cannot pay money because
God doesn’t understand money.
He doesn’t understand banking!
He doesn’t understand.
But somehow or the other we feel that we can
purchase God.
We can pay for Him.
Anybody who is available for money cannot
be your master.
He cannot be a person who will deliver the
goods which are divine.
So to achieve anything divine you have to
know one thing that, it is a spontaneous thing.
It is the last breakthrough of your evolutionary
process and as you have not paid anything
to become a human being, you don’t have
to pay anything to become a higher personality.
But, it’s rather surprising how we try to
think in the terms of some mundane method
of achieving this higher state of awareness.
It’s a living process, very simple and just
works spontaneously and the power of kundalini
which is shown here is your individual Mother.
She is the power of pure desire.
As you know, in economics it is said that
in general ‘wants are not satiable.’
That means the desires, jump from one to another
but this is the pure desire which you may
be aware, not aware of it but which acts and
is working within you.
That’s why you’re seeking the truth.
That’s why you want to know what is beyond?
After all why I’m here?
Everybody has this question sometime in life…why
am I on this Earth? and what am I doing here?
Now the answer is only in your achieving the
state of the Spirit.
The state of the Spirit is a state in which
you become a new personality with a new dimension
of your awareness which Jung has described.
Jung has clearly described that once when
you get your self realization you become collectively
conscious.
So its a question of becoming.
It’s not just certifying that you are twice
born, that you are a realized soul, that you
are something of a higher awareness.
It is the state in which you jump.
The state which you know of and you should
also know the modus operandi of the whole
thing.
So the yoga has two meanings; one means the
‘union’ and another meaning the ‘yukti’
means the modus operandi.
You must know how it works.
If somebody says, alright I’ll give you
a name, I mean there have been so many from
my country unfortunately, who have been selling
mantras, marketing God, marketing Ayurveda,
marketing this, marketing that and people
take it for granted.
They don’t know anything about it.
For example TM, I was told, is so strong here,
I better not tell you how far it has gone
to destroy people.
But they charge, to begin with, 300 pounds
for giving mantras and they’re told you
should not talk about it to anyone.
Now these mantras were 3 types – one was
called as ‘inga, pinga, thinga’.
These 3 words are not even Sanskrit and the
person who is supposed to be a ‘Maharishi’
doesn’t even know a word of Sanskrit language!
‘Inga’ means the scorpion bite, pinga
means when a person gets possessed and goes
round and round, that’s ‘pinga’ and
‘thinga’ means showing like this [Shri
Mataji shows Her thumb].
So it was said you’re not to tell this to
anyone.
It’s a secret.
It’s a sacred secret!
Imagine the nonsense of it and people paid
300 pounds for this so called mantra and then
6000 pounds they paid, you’ll be amazed,
for becoming a ‘siddha.’
Now, what is a ‘siddha’ is that they start
flying in the air!
It’s nonsense!
Why do you want to fly in the air about 4
feet above [you see]?
Already we are having problems of the traffic.
It’s absurd!
How can you accept such suggestions?
You’re all very intelligent people.
And they said, that alright, we will give
you a siddha mantra.
So they made them sit on the foam and made
them jump and then when they started jumping
they broke their bottoms and there have been
cases and cases after them.
6000 pounds they charge for this kind of a
nonsense and then they said that we’ll pay
you, I mean you’ll have to become a very
special personality.
So first they gave them the water which boils
some potatoes.
It’s a fact!
I’m telling the truth and I am not afraid
of them.
And then they said, alright you take this
water for 6 days, 6000 pounds, imagine!
And the 7th day, you take, what you call,
the rind of the potatoes and the 8th day the
potatoes.
For what?
For going in the air just like walking up!
What to say?
I don’t know, it’s never described in
any one of the books.
No where such a nonsense is described and
people paid.
And the gentleman who was in charge of this
flying academy, became bankrupt!
His wife, he, his daughter got epilepsy and
then they came to Sahaja Yoga.
He is writing a book about it.
I hope it comes out very soon and you will
know what these TM people are like.
They are marketing everything!
Now they are marketing Ayurveda.
What is the need for these people to market
Ayurveda?
You cannot have Ayurveda in the western countries
because its freshly prepared things.
Only in India you can do it.
But you can market anything to these simple
people, who have no idea as to what it is.
It’s a such a shameful thing for me as an
Indian that such people should come out of
my country but now I am told Americans have
taken over.
Even some Australians have taken over, the
same tricks and they are minting money out
of you.
We had one gentleman who bought Rolls Royces
after Rolls Royces and then they were sold
out, auctioned, you know him very well.
What is the interest of a saint in a Rolls
Royce?
I can’t understand.
For example when I was in Boston they asked
me, Americans special type of brains they
have, so they said, Mother, ‘how many Rolls
Royces you have?
I said, ‘I have none.’
‘Don’t have any Rolls Royces?’
‘No, no I have my husband’s cars, that’s
all!’
He said, ‘then we are not interested, it’s
no business.’
I said ‘no, it’s no business at all , it’s
not a business!
‘Then we are not interested.’
They wouldn’t even take me on the television
for that.
Can you imagine!
This is American brain.
And that’s how they all landed in America
and they marketed everything.
This is to be understood that divinity is
a pure thing.
It purifies you.
It has nothing to do with this materialistic
attitude of these so called saints.
Saints cannot be materialistic.
If they are materialistic, they are not divine.
I have come here to tell you, that all these
things are within yourself.
This is your own power of kundalini.
She is your individual Mother.
She knows each and everything about you and
She’s anxious to give you realization.
And this all pervading power of God’s love,
which is described in every scripture, has
come into a new mood because it was said that
there’re ‘kaliyuga,’ these horrible
modern times, where all kinds of nonsensical
things will take place.
And from changing it from this to ‘Satayuga,’
means the Kingdom of God, in between, in this
interval, this all pervading power has gone
into another mood called as ‘kritayuga’
where it is active.
It is so very active that once you come to
Sahaja Yoga you’ll be surprised and you’ll
say, Mother, ‘what miracles!
This miracle, that miracle.’
See Its God, Its GOD Almighty!
For Him what is a miracle?
We think of God, He’s Almighty!
But we don’t know what it means.
Our faith in God is so limited that we don’t
understand that He is God.
My grandmother used to tell me a very sweet
story.
Like the grandmother story it was…that a
man was going to see God.
So one gentleman met him on the way, and asked
him, asked him, ‘if you’re going to God,
then will you please tell Him that I’ve
been working very hard and when He’s going
to meet me’
He said, ‘alright’
Then he met one gentleman on the street, just
like on the side of the street.
He said, ‘you’re going to God.
Tell Him that I’ve had no food, I’ve had
no food at all’
He said, ‘alright’
He was quite amazed.
Look at this man just informing God that he
had no food.
So he went to God and saw Him and God said
‘now, you’ve some more work?’
He said, ‘no no, you see I met one gentleman
who was saying that he’s working very hard
for You and when are You going to meet him
and he was making enquiries.
He said that I’m waiting for Him.
So You please tell me when will You meet him?’
So God just smiled and said, ‘tell him to
wait for sometime, he has to wait.’
Then the second one, when he told about the
second one, he said, ‘oh God that fellow
was so funny, he just said that You have to
send my food.’
‘Yes yes, of course his food has to be arranged
immediately.
You have to do something about it.’
He couldn’t understand that how these two
reactions are there.
God realized that there’s something confusing
him.
He told him, ‘see now you are confused.
So you go down and tell one thing to both
of them and see their reactions.
So just tell them that I went to God and there
I saw that He made a little camel pass through
the nose of a needle.’
He said, ‘really?’
‘Yes, you just tell them.’
He went down.
The first man met him and he said, ‘what
did God, what did He say?’
‘He said that you just have to wait for
a little while.
I’ll come along but you have to wait.’
‘So I have to still wait?’
‘Yes Yes’
He said, ‘but what did you see there?’
He said, ‘I saw that God, I saw a very big
miracle that He made a big elephant pass through
the nose of a needle.’
‘It’s not possible.
How can it be?
Why are you telling me stories?
Because you have been to God, you’re telling
me stories?’
So he went to another man and he said, ‘yes,
yes of course I knew God would give me food
but I wanted to give some message so I told
you, but I’ve got it, everything.
And what did you see there?
So he said that, ‘that I saw that God made
a camel pass through the nose of a needle.
Its a miracle!’
He said, ‘what a miracle it is!
It’s God.
It’s God Almighty!
What is it, a little camel?
He can make the universes after universes
pass through that.
He’s God Almighty!
So you must understand that God has created
us and that we have reached the state.
Now we have to just travel about 3 to 4 feet
and we are in the kingdom of God.
The time has come for you to achieve it.
But it sounds very fantastic to everyone.
How can it be, how can it be so easy?
I have to say that whatever is important and
vital has to be easy.
For example, our breathing.
For our breathing, if we had to do some exercises,
if you have to read something then, it would
be very difficult.
So we have not understood, so far, that we
are still at a stage that to know God we have
to, little bit, know more and that knowing
more is what we call is self realization.
You can call it by any name.
In any religion, even in ‘Quran,’ is written
that you have to be a ‘Wali’, like we
had some in India, Nizamuddin Sahb, this Chisti,
all of them.
But Mohammed Sahb has clearly said that at
the time of ‘Kiyamah,’ means at the time
of your resurrections, your hands will speak.
Now we should not judge Mohammed Sahb by the
way what Saddam is doing.
He is a devil.
You can see it clearly.
So these people take the name of God, as if
He’s in their pockets and start doing things.
And we start doubting how can it be God’s
work?
God’s work is absolutely beautiful, pure.
He’s compassion.
He is ocean of love and to know Him, first
of all we have to enter into His kingdom.
For example, now I landed here and I came
to know about your customs.
If I was in India, I would not have known
anything about it.
In the same way, if you have not entered into
the kingdom of God, how will you know?
It has nothing to do with what age you are.
It has nothing to do with what ideas you have.
First of all, only thing, you have to be humble
about it.
That so far, you have not known the Absolute.
But once you know the Absolute you become
a part and parcel of the Whole.
The microcosm becomes the macrocosm.
You become.
Again I say you become.
Its not question of giving a false certificate
or assuming that yourself.
For example, Steven now is before you.
He had problems, physical problems also he
had.
All problems solved.
That’s not so important.
But he’s so powerful.
He has given realization to so many people,
but he doesn’t say that, he doesn’t behave
like other funny people do, like you shave
your head off, or you wear some funny dress
or you go about jumping and behaving in a
manner so ridiculous!
There’s no need to do these things outside.
It’s within yourself.
It’s within yourself and it is your own
power.
Its your own.
So why not have it?
And its freely available.
Why not get to that which is your own, your
own property.
Today they asked me to give a more sort of
a introductory lecture about Sahaja Yoga.
It’s such a deep ocean of knowledge that,
I don’t know, I must have given at least
4000 or 5000 lectures in English language
itself and so many other languages but still
the knowledge, they say, ‘Mother, you never
repeat.’
I’m quite surprised that the thing, that
I never repeat anything.
But the ocean is so great, and the more you
swim in it, the more you enjoy.
Now I would only request you, to have an open
mind about it, very open mind.
You must know the problems of this world are
not because of God, they are because of human
beings.
Any problem.
Take ecological problem now; the way we have
gone head long into exploiting our Mother
Earth.
Any problem you take is because of human beings.
So it is important to see why, we human beings
are creating problems for ourselves?
And if you locate the source, it is only one
thing that we have to be transformed.
The transformation of human beings is needed
and if that transformation is accepted and
is worked out, if you become that beautiful
personality, then you will know what you are,
how great you are, what is your potential
and what you can do.
I hope today, most of you will get your realization,
I hope so and also I would like you to ask
me some questions but not aggressive questions.
Ask questions which are relevant because I’m
not here to take anything from you.
I’m here to just give you what is yours.
So ask relevant questions and if you belong
to some group, or to some guru or something,
I have to just say, that if you’re satisfied
with them then you can go all out with them.
But if you’re not, then I have to tell you,
that the only way, is to get to self realization.
There is no other way out.
May God bless you!
Question and Answers:
Question: To reach the level of spiritual
goal are material goals acceptable?
If you want to do some material things, is
that acceptable?
Shri Mataji: After all what is matter?
Is also created by God!
We can’t create anything.
So, when you’re spiritually awakened you
become really extremely compassionate as well
as dynamic.
The energy is all the time flowing through.
Now, can you believe, I am 68 years of age
and I hardly stay in a place for more than
3 days.
Traveling all over the world.
I never get tired.
Anything that is material as you see, for
example you want to buy something, for example.
Take it, a very mundane things you see, you
want to buy.
Now you want to buy something in a shop, if
it is necessary, you go in a shop and you
want to know the price and everything.
Now how will you know whether this is good
or bad?
There’s no way to find out.
But when you get self realization you start
getting these cool breeze as vibrations and
your fingers become activated, finger tips
and on that you know all these centers as
shown here.
Now supposing you meet a cheat and he’s
very well dressed and you think he’s a very
polished gentleman.
But as soon as you put your hands towards
the person, immediately, you’ll find, fingers
will be burning.
Even in material things, you will feel the
vibrations.
You will know what is good and what is bad.
Like, many people take so many medicines blind
folded.
After all, he must have told you, that in
Sahaja Yoga your health improves.
You get in totality the benevolence.
Like we have two doctors in Delhi, who already
have got MD in Sahaja Yoga and there are 400
doctors in Russia who are practicing Sahaja
Yoga because you see, they’re very open
minded people, like clean slates.
They have no conditionings of religion or
anything on their heads.
Very open minded people.
So, your health improves.
When your health improves, your mind improves,
your intellect improves, in every way you
become so relaxed.
Then you see any problem, whether material
or physical, mental, emotional, any problem,
as if you are out of that problem.
You see that problem.
And when you see that problem you can solve
it better.
On any level whats so ever.
Its not at all complicated.
Because we are complicated, we cannot solve
the problems.
I would suggest like this, if you’re standing
in the water, you’re afraid of the waves
but supposing you are in a boat, you can enjoy
those waves.
But supposing if you become a master of swimming
you can jump and you can save so many people.
These are the stages which you pass in Sahaja
Yoga and any subject, now we have people who,
say, are running factories.
Their factories were shut, they had strikes,
they had this problem, that problem.
They are perfectly alright.
They’re doing so well because the understanding
of totality comes to them.
From small to big, from left to right, everything
you start knowing on your central nervous
system.
That’s how you solve the problem.
Alright.
For example, now in London, you must have
heard there’s so much of joblessness but
not a single Sahaj Yogi.
Once they come to Sahaja Yoga they have jobs
because they become so dynamic, they become
so peaceful and faces start shining with that
joy and to find out one jobless person, who
is a Sahaj Yogi in England, is a difficult
task.
Question: What is happening in the hands?
There’s a tingling.
Shri Mataji: Ah, that means something, there’s
a problem, alright, there should be no tingling
but if there’s a problem, we’ll correct
it.
There’s tingling, there’s a problem.
You should be corrected.
Actually you should feel the cool breeze in
the hand, but sometimes you feel hot.
That is, may be, due to liver also.
You might feel hot but then it cools down.
Ultimately you get the cool breeze.
This kundalini moves, it passes through all
these centers, about this I’ll tell you
tomorrow also, and nourishes all of them.
By their nourishment you see it soothes you,
purifies those centers and you feel completely
integrated.
Completely relaxed.
This is the real baptism.
It’s not artificial because it breaks through,
this fontanelle bone area and you start feeling
the cool breeze of the Holy Ghost coming out
of your head.
It is an actualization.
It is not just talking.
It has to work out.
Question: What shape and form does the subtle
body take?
Shri Mataji: You see, the Spirit, is a reflection
of God Almighty on our heart.
It’s an energy.
So the subtle body, if you mean the Spirit,
it is, the light.
Is in the form of light and this light, which
I will describe tomorrow, in full, how it
acts.
Question: How long it takes for self realization?
Shri Mataji: Oh, it takes no time at all.
It takes no time.
There was a very great saint, called Ramadasa,
and somebody asked him, ‘How much time does
it take for a Kundalini awakening?’
He said, ‘Takshan’ ,’that moment!’
But there should be a person deserving to
get it and the one who can give it.
But today I must tell you, I’ve reached
a stage, I cannot explain how, thousands of
them are getting realization.
I went to Russia.
They’ve never known me at all, nothing.
First time I went there.
They just saw my photograph and in thousands
they came.
We had to book a stadium ultimately.
Sixteen thousand, fourteen thousand and all
of them got realization.
It has become like a religion with them.
I mean how Sahaja Yoga has prospered in Russia,
is something, you cannot explain.
You cannot explain.
See, it hardly takes anytime.
This is a jet age and the Kundalini also works
like a jet.
You don’t even feel the rising.
In some people you do, if there is an obstruction.
Otherwise suddenly you start feeling the cool
breeze and the cool breeze in your hand but
you don’t doubt yourself.
That’s one thing.
We go on doubting.
How can I get it?
This and that.
Please don’t doubt.
Question: Are there workshops following this
program tomorrow?
[There was no program the next day which Shri
Mataji was unaware of]
Shri Mataji: Not tomorrow?
Oh my!
I thought, Oh I’m sorry, I would have said
something more.
Oh!
I thought there is a program tomorrow also.
(Talking to a yogi, ‘Why not?
I mean such nice people here.
Would be better if you could organize something
tomorrow, may be.
I am not going tomorrow evening, am I?’)
They fix me like a plug you know from one
place to another.
I don’t know, I didn’t know there’s
only program here.
I’m sorry about it.
Normally always I have two days.
It doesn’t matter.
As long as you get your realization, you have
to work it out.
It works out and you’ll know each and everything.
You’ll become a master.
Master of this.
You can give realization to others.
Question: Why do you talk of God as a man?
Shri Mataji: I’m a woman here.
You should know that between God and His power
there is no quarrel.
His power is the Holy Ghost is a Woman, no
doubt.
In india we call Her as Adi Shakti, is the
primordial Mother.
Like the moon and moonlight, the sun and the
sunlight are not two different things.
Only in human life we think like a man and
a woman, like that, but do you know, the woman
is the power of man.
There’s no quarrel between the two.
Actually, God is just a spectator and the
primordial Mother does all the job, He’s
just a spectator and when He doesn’t like
it, He just finishes the whole thing.
He cancels.
He’s the one who is watching, how the children
of the Mother are going to behave.
They do not quarrel.
They don’t go for divorce, nothing of the
kind.
Actually this concept, never came into Christianity
somehow of the Mother and it was played down
very much by Mr Paul who just came into Bible
somehow or the other.
I don’t know why he was there and he didn’t
even want to accept the immaculate conception
as one of the truths.
And he fought with all these disciples and
he found a very good platform ready for him
because he was just a officer with the Romans
and he had killed also, one disciple of Christ
called Steven.
But he just jumped on the stage and he took
over.
And then even, I think, he was born as Augustine
and they ruined Christianity completely.
Completely!
And it has reached such a horrible state,
specially among protestants now, they have
made a, kind of a mental, their approach,
to such a limit, to say that Christ was a
homosexual!
Or to say that, these horrible things, that
really, I don’t want to just say also.
So should we have now.
Self realization all of us.
There are two conditions.
The first one is, to have full confidence
in yourself.
Those people who tell you, you are sinners
and you have done this wrong and you are all
the time guilty about something, I’ve to
make a very humble request that you should
know that you are a human being, not God and
a human being is the only one who can make
mistakes.
Animals never think that they make mistakes
because they are completely under the control
of God and God’s never make mistakes.
It’s only human beings who are capable of
making mistakes.
So there is no need to feel guilty or call
yourself sinners or anything.
Those who call you sinners itself must be
greatest sinners, I think.
Every human being has a right to become divine.
So please forgive yourself.
Forgot all the past at this moment and know
that you are the Spirit.
You are not guilty at all, of, for anything.
Just give up all the guilt.
It’s also a fashion to have guilt.
Even for small small things, you see, our
modern life has so many norms.
Like one gentleman was very upset.
So I said, ‘what’s the matter?’
‘I spilled coffee on my dress.’
‘What is there?
Doesn’t matter!
If coffee is there, it has to spill also.’
Such a small nonsensical thing, he couldn’t
sleep for the whole night.
One has to know these are all very very simple
things on which we should not worry our heads
and we have to get into that area where we
will enjoy ourselves.
So forget about it.
Just forget and just don’t feel guilty.
Not to feel guilty.
Is the first condition.
The second condition is that, you have to
forgive everyone.
Now you may say that, ‘it’s very difficult
Mother to forgive everyone.’
But just think logically.
Whether you forgive or you don’t forgive,
you don’t do anything.
What do you do?
You don’t do anything.
It’s a myth.
But if you don’t forgive, then you play
into wrong hands and you torture yourself
while the person who has tortured you, is
quite happy.
So you have to forgive in general.
Don’t think of each and every person individually.
Just forgive everyone, in such a manner that
you say to yourself ‘I forgive ALL of them.’
And you’ll feel very light after that.
You’ll see.
You’ll feel much better.
Just forgive.
Forgive everyone.
This is the second condition.
That’s all!
Now to go about it, is very simple, we have
to take the help of the Mother Earth a little
bit.
So if you could take out your shoes for a
while, not the socks but the shoes and put
both the feet apart from each other.
Just imagine sitting on the chair, anywhere,
you get your self realization.
It’s so simple!
Even in my lecture, if I’ve said something
which might have made you feel guilty, please
forget the lecture also.
Just forget it.
Not to feel guilty is very important because
when you feel guilty you spoil the centre
here, on the left hand side (Shri Mataji puts
her hand on left visuddhi) and this causes
a horrible disease called Angina.
Also it causes Spondylitis and many other
lethargic organs diseases.
So why do you want to have all these things
just for a myth of a guilt?
Specially Australians are, I think, I don’t
know why they have a guilt but Australians
should not have any guilt at all.
For what?
You never went into any war, nothing, you
have settled down here far away from the mad
world.
So why should you have any guilt?
Alright, so now you have to put both your
feet apart from each other because, left and
right, as he must’ve told you, are two powers.
One is the power of desire, normal desire
and another one is the power of action.
This one works for the desire (gestures left)
and this one for the action (gestures right).
So we’ll be using both our hands.
He’ll show you how.
First you see and you will, yourself activate
your own kundalini.
First you put your left hand towards me like
this.
He’ll show you.
Please keep your eyes open just now.
Then you can close later on when we’ll have
the real procedure.
Just put the left hand like this.
Be comfortable.
You shouldn’t bend or you shouldn’t push
yourself back too much but sit comfortably.
Be comfortable.
Now please put the left hand like this – this
is symbolic that you want to have your realization.
And you have to put your right hand on your
different centers, symbolic of the action
that you are taking.
Actually it is no action but you are nourishing
your centers by placing your hand on these
different centers.
So you put your right hand on your heart.
It’s very good.
All of you should do it.
Please put your right hand on your heart.
In the heart I’ve told you is the reflection
of God Almighty, the Spirit.
We’ll be working only on the left hand side.
We take our right hand now on the upper portion
of our abdomen on the left hand side.
This is the centre of your mastery.
The mastery of yoga by which you yourself
can give realization to others.
And this centre was created by great prophets
and great saints.
Then we take our hand onto the lower portion
of our abdomen on the left hand side and press
it hard.
This is the centre of pure knowledge.
Of pure knowledge.
Pure knowledge is the knowledge which gives
you the full understanding or gives, empowers
you, to work out the divine power.
That’s the pure knowledge.
Then you raise your hand again back, on the
right side of your abdomen in the upper portion
and press it hard.
This is again is the principal of mastery,
‘Guru tattwa’ as they call it.
Then again you raise your right hand on your
heart.
Now you place your right hand in the corner
of your neck and your shoulder.
Place it back.
As far as possible.
This is very important.
This centre as I told you is, if in jeopardy,
then you get horrible diseases.
Now turn your head to your right.
This is the centre where you have to say you
are not guilty.
This we’ll do later on.
Now please take your right hand on top of
your forehead across.
Press it like this and put down your head
fully on it.
This is the centre.
Now, here you bend your head and here you
have to forgive everyone.
This is the centre of Christ.
One window of that centre we can call, is
in the front.
Another one is on the back.
Where you put your right hand on the backside
of your head.
Backside of your head.
Press back your head, as far as possible.
Here is the centre where, for your own satisfaction,
without feeling guilty you have to ask forgiveness
from the divine, if you have done any mistakes.
Is for only your satisfaction.
You don’t have to feel guilty about it or
think about your own mistakes.
Just you have to ask.
Please push back your head.
Now, please stretch your right hand fully
and put the centre of your palm exactly on
the fontanelle bone area, which was a soft
bone in your childhood.
Press it nicely.
Push back your fingers, put down your head
as much as you can.
Put down your head and now press it hard.
This is the last centre and now start moving
your scalp with a big pressure.
Push back your fingers.
Very important.
Move it 7 times.
You will know why 7 times and why it is so
many times.
Clockwise.
Slowly.
That’s all you have to do.
That’s all.
Now, we have to close our eyes.
Before that I would say, you can take out
your glasses.
It might help your eyesight.
You don’t open your eyes till I tell you.
If you have anything tight around your neck
or around your waist, you can make it little
loose because, may be, it might make you uncomfortable.
If it is not making you uncomfortable it’s
alright.
So now you have sit little straight, that’s
all, not too much strain on your back.
But in a straight way.
And now please put your left hand towards
me and right hand on your heart and now please
close your eyes.
As I told you, you have to desire for self
realization.
I cannot force on you.
Now here you have to say or ask a question
to me.
You can call me ‘Mother’ or ‘Shri Mataji,’
whatever you feel like.
‘Mother, am I the Spirit?’
Like a computer you’re asking a question
because you have to become a divine computer.
Where the whole programming is within yourself.
So now ask a question 3 times ‘Mother, am
I the Spirit?’
In your heart.
Now, if you are the Spirit, you are your master.
So please take down your right hand in the
upper portion of your abdomen.
On the left hand side.
Keep the left hand towards me and both the
feet apart.
Please don’t open your eyes till I tell
you.
Now here, you ask me another question 3 times,
‘Mother, am I my own master?’Ask this
question 3 times in your heart.
Do not doubt yourself.
You have to know that I cannot force pure
knowledge on you.
You have your own freedom.
If you don’t want it, I cannot do it.
So you have to ask for it.
So now you can put your right hand in the
lower portion of your abdomen, on the left
hand side and press it hard.
And here you have to say, ‘Mother, please
give me pure knowledge.’
‘Shri Mataji, give me please pure knowledge.’
You have to say this 6 times because this
centre has got 6 petals.
As soon as you ask for pure knowledge, the
kundalini starts moving upward.
So we have to just nourish the upper centers
with our self confidence.
Sow now please, raise your right hand in the
upper portion of your abdomen on the left
hand side.
Here you have to say with full confidence,10
times,‘Mother, I am my own master.’
Say it with full confidence, ‘Mother, I
am my own master.’
Say it sincerely and with self confidence.
I’ve already told you at the very outset
that the truth about, is that, you are not
this body, not this mind, not this ego nor
these conditionings but you are the pure Spirit.
So now please raise your right hand on your
heart.
And here you say with full confidence again,12
times,
‘Mother, I am the Spirit.’
Please say it 12 times.
I’ve already told you that you are not God.
You are a human being and if you have done
any mistakes, there’s nothing to worry about
it.
So do not feel guilty.
At this present moment you better forget the
past and completely forgive yourself.
Now place your right hand in the corner of
your shoulder and your neck.
And turn your head to your right.
Here you have to say with full confidence
in yourself, 16 times, ‘Mother, I am not
guilty at all.’
Please say, 16 times, ‘Mother, I am not
Now, we have to know that this divine power
is the ocean of love, ocean of knowledge,
ocean of joy but above all, it is the ocean
of forgiveness and whatever mistakes we commit,
it can be dissolved into this great power
of ocean of forgiveness.
Now raise your right hand onto your forehead
across and put down your head on it.
Here as I told you, you have to say, ‘Mother,
I forgive everyone in general.’
As I have explained to you that whether you
forgive or don’t forgive, you don’t do
anything but if you don’t forgive, you play
into wrong hands.
So please say it, from your heart.
Not how many times, say it, from your heart,
‘Mother, I forgive everyone.’
Now without feeling guilty, without counting
your mistakes, just for your satisfaction,
you have to ask for forgiveness from the divine
power.
So now please put your right hand on the backside
of your head and push back your head as far
as possible.
Here you have to
say with full confidence, without feeling
guilty, without counting your mistakes, ‘O
divine power, if I have done any mistakes,
knowingly or unknowingly, please forgive me.’
Say it again, from your heart.
It’s not important how many times.
From your heart!
Now, stretch your hand, fully, right hand
and put the centre of your palm on top of
your head, on the fontanelle bone area, which
was a soft bone in your childhood.Now, put
it down.
Put it down as much as you can.
Put down your head.
Now, push back your fingers.
Push back your fingers.
So there’s lot of pressure on the scalp.
Here again, I cannot force self realization
on you.
You have to ask for it.
I respect your freedom.
So please, move your hand 7 times, clockwise,
slowly, saying 7 times, ‘Mother, please
give me self realization.’
Please say it 7 times, ‘Mother, please give
me self realization.’
Now put the hand properly.
This is a very important procedure.
Put the hand properly on the fontanelle bone
area.
Put down your head.
Press it hard and move it very slowly, clockwise.
Now please take down your hands.
Now please put both your hands towards me
like this and watch me without thinking.
Both the hands towards me.
Now, the right hand you put like this, bend
your head and see for yourself if there’s
a cool breeze coming out of your fontanelle
bone area.
Now hold the hand, above, not on top of your
head, and see for your, bend your head.
See for yourself with your left hand if there’s
a cool breeze or a hot breeze in some cases,
is coming out of your own head.
You have to certify yourself.
Now bend your head.
Please bend your head.
Please bend your head, bend it.
Bending will help you better.
Now concentrate.
Don’t put it on top.
Some people get it quite far away and move
your hand all over to see if there’s a cool
breeze coming out of it.
Now, please take the left hand like this.
Put the left hand towards me.
Now again, bend your head and please see with
your right hand if there’s cool breeze or
a hot breeze or heat coming out of your head.
Please see.
Move your hand.
Some people get it very far also.
Now, please put your right hand towards me
and again with the left hand, bend your head
and again see for yourself.
Now, push back both your hands towards the
sky.
Both your hands towards the sky.
Push back your head completely and ask a question
3 times, ‘Mother, is this the all pervading
power of God’s love?’Just ask this question
3 times.
Please take down both your hands.
Push both the hands towards me and watch me
without thinking.This is the first stage which
we call in Sanskrit as ‘Nirvichar Samadhi’
and in English it is ‘thoughtless awareness’
where there is no thought.
So you have crossed this and you have crossed
this also.
But it is to be established still further,
in a proper way.
All those who have felt cool or hot breeze
out of their heads or on their fingers, on
their hands, please raise both your hands.
Imagine the whole of Perth has felt it, practically!
May God Bless You!
Some of you have not felt.
Doesn’t matter.
It will work out.
Maybe, you must be thinking about something.
I don’t know what happened.
So now we have to know that we have got the
first breakthrough but this connection has
to be fully established.
Has to be fully manifested within our being.
So whatever we have achieved, we have to work
it out in such a manner that we know what
it is.
I would like to meet you because I may not
be able to meet you tomorrow.
I’m so sorry.
So if you can come around, I would like to
meet you and talk to you about it. May God Bless You! Thank you!